what's up everyone welcome to motive
garage in this episode we're working
again and our r32 skyline a GTR now the
overall combination on this car is
pretty much the way that we want it from
here on in it's all about tweaking that
combination to make it perfect now since
our last episode we've fitted up some
achilles 1 2 3 s to 65/35 18-inch tires
so the car has a whole lot more grip
which is not only good for cornering but
for acceleration and braking as well now
in this episode we're going to focus on
putting on a new exhaust system and
reaching in the car for more mid-range
and top-end power
the first step to more power and better
drivability was a new exhaust system as
we were suspect of the old one when the
car was last on the dyno we teamed up
with leading exhaust system manufacturer
exports and took the car to clear away
mufflers the old 80 millimeter exhaust
had cocked a few hits and the design of
the front pipe seemed quite small at
less than two and a half inches the new
x-force exhaust system comprises of twin
three inch front pipes merging into a
full three and a half inch system with a
high flow cat and 2 mufflers as they say
bigger is better
we went for mild steel with a stainless
free muffler as we're into driving the
GTR not showing off the Thunder side
feeding was straightforward and the more
we thought of the old exhaust the more
we realized just how old and damaged it
really was
with the new one fitted it was time to
start her up
the car now sounds what kikyo it used to
sound stock but an RB 26 needs to be
heard
better to be safe than sorry so we took
the car straight to CID to get on the
dyno and check out of the tune has
changed straightaway the boost levels
had raised dramatically
this means the exhaust had definitely
freed up the engine as the same boost
controller settings for an increase with
3 to 4 psi of boost a good sign as well
as adjusting the boost controller jim
also had to add more fuel up top a sign
that the car is making more torque and
power although the new sticky 265 akiles
123 has tires while making the dyno
readings a little lower in comparison to
last time after working his GTR voodoo
magic it was time for the final power
run
looking at the graph you can see just
how much a good exhaust system has
transformed our GTR bottom end and
mid-range has been improved dramatically
with an extra 15 to 50 kilowatts
everywhere
although peak power is only up 10 odd
kilowatts with an extra pound of boost
it's probably more like 20 kilowatts due
to the different tires peak torque has
increased by over 10 percent
and now arrives at 145 km/h in fourth as
opposed to 175 previously this is a
massive difference and should transform
the car on the road and make it much
faster so I guess we should find out
driving the GTI now is like chalk and
cheese in fact if you didn't know better
and you've driven the car before and
after it simply wouldn't believe it's
the same car the low down power and the
mid-range torque has totally transformed
what it's like to drive not just
flat-out but driving normally as well
fuel economy is being improved it's
easier to drive around town it's even
easier to take off in this car although
it made 300 kilowatts before it was
always very dopey very lazy down low you
had to really rev it and get it up it to
uh you know make the car feel quick but
now even down low it's making boost
earlier it's nicer to drive jim hasn't
done his magic again and transform this
GTR
let's go over and being a dopey
disappointing a bit of a pig of a car
it's now a GTR
you can point
and shoot you don't need to Ram the guts
out of it it has meat range talk it's
just fun it's just a fun potent kind of
drive now now as much as I used to love
the quiet exhaust in this car I thought
that was a bit of an attraction nothing
beats the sound of a GTR a full noise RB
26 now just sounds awesome well now
we've got more grip and more power let's
see how quick it is
well can tell you what project budget
supercar has certainly met the grade how
to zero to a hundred in 3.6 second sound
to you that is super car fast let's see
if that was a fluke and try it again
3.52 103.5 zero to sixty k is now is 1.5
seconds this is super car fast